alternative radio presents Philip Agee
on the re-emergence of fascism in Europe
and its links to post-war US policy I'm
David bar saw me on fascist movements
are increasingly active throughout
Europe and the former Soviet Union areas
of the Balkans are ethnically cleansed
Asians are attacked in Britain Arabs are
assaulted in France Turks are murdered
in Germany while the targets of racism
and hate have mostly changed the
rhetoric of the two / Asian is basically
the same it goes something like this
evil and sinister groups are despoiling
our pristine and blessed land they are
polluting our culture defiling our women
and taking our jobs these formulations
are usually buttress by concepts of
racial purity cloaked in pseudo
scientific jargon what is startling and
generally not known is that US policies
in post-war Europe assure the survival
of Nazism in Germany and fascism in
general throughout the continent the
United States found it expedient because
of Cold War politics to recruit employ
and protect war criminals Philip Agee
has lived all over Europe and now lives
in Hamburg he has carefully studied the
revival of fascism he was a former
officer in the Central Intelligence
Agency
he served in Ecuador Uruguay and Mexico
since resigning from the CIA he has
lectured and written widely on the
agency's covert operations his landmark
book inside the company CIA diary has
been translated into 28 languages he
spoke in Portland Oregon on March 10
1994 and now Philip Agee
now as far as the the Nazi movement is
concerned these days in Europe it is
really a very serious problem in Germany
since the Berlin Wall came down
these neo-nazis have been using the
problems related to the reunification of
Germany to blame the traditional parties
that is the Social Democrats the
Christian Democrats and the Liberals
their main scapegoats have been
foreigners
whereas Jews had been in Communist had
been the scapegoats for the earlier
period of fascism in Germany now they
are foreigners although there is a very
strong anti-semitic belief and strain
and actions to the current movement in
addition which falls into the category
of foreigners they are carrying out all
sorts of actions against asylum seekers
you know when the Germans wrote their
constitution after World War 2 the
Constitution that was adopted in 1949
when the Federal Republic was
established they wrote into it that
anyone oppressed politically in the
world could have political asylum in the
Federal Republic of Germany the reason
was a show of appreciation for all of
those countries that had accepted
Germans and given them political asylum
during the Hitler period and they were
going to respond well one of the main
demands of the extreme right in Germany
during recent years has been an end to
this asylum provision in the
Constitution I mean it got really out of
hand
more than 500,000 for example in 1992
alone and so they were attacking the
hostile hostels where they housed these
asylum seekers and they were coming from
all sorts of different countries they
came from Africa they came from southern
Europe principally from the former
Yugoslavia from Romania and so forth the
principal tool that these neo-nazis use
our baseball bats and steel pipes to
attack people in the street and it's
just not it's not only the
darker-skinned people such as africans
or Turks or Iranians but all sorts of
others for example there was a case in
Berlin where a man from Britain was
walking down the street in Berlin with
his girlfriend a German woman and they
were speaking English and just for that
these band of neo-nazi thugs attacked
him with baseball bats and put him in
the hospital in critical condition
they are also publishing hit lists over
there now as of December this
publication came out it's called their
ein blick which means insightly and it
has the innocent license-plate numbers
of their cars and calls for punishment
of these people it is what they call an
anti anti foul movement because in
Germany there is a well-developed
anti-fascist movement called the anti 5
Poveglia or movement and this is the
response of the neo-nazis to that
anti-fascist movement they call it the
anti anti-fascist movement and this was
actually published in Denmark because
it's against the law to do it in Germany
to publish these hate at least this hate
literature and they did it therefore in
Denmark and it was then mailed to all
sorts of addresses in in the Federal
Republic of Germany and was on sale in
the extreme right bookstores their
attacks against foreigners in Germany
were up 70% in 1992 over 1991 and in the
first six months of last year they were
up 130 percent over the first six months
of 1992 then in the summer came a
landmark procedure in the Bundestag
that's the federal parliament
we're in the parties agreed that the
Constitution would in effect be changed
and that they would curtail the right to
asylum of people in Germany this was one
of the principle demands of the neo-nazi
movement and the traditional parties
caved in and passed a new law in July or
which was effective in July passed in
Maine curtailing almost completely the
right of foreigners to get political
asylum in Germany last June alone there
were 76 fire bombings and 79 people were
wounded that is one of the one of their
favorite practices fire bombing the
residences of foreigners late at night
when people are asleep and that is
precisely what happened to the three
Turkish woman women in moon just outside
Hamburg there is a government agency
which is in charge of monitoring the
extreme right and the extreme left in
Germany it's called the professorships
or office furthest in English it would
be federal office for the protection of
the Constitution and this agency
reported that or reported last August
that almost 40,000 43,000 people are
active in 82 different organizations of
the extreme right and we're talking now
of the violent right 43,000 people
active in 82 different organizations
there are also a large number of people
active in legal political parties which
field candidates the two principal
principal parties are the Deutsche folks
onion or German people's Union and the
Republic honor Potter or Republican
Party each of these has about 25,000
members they calculate so if you take
these two political parties and add to
that the 43,000 in the violent groups
then you're getting up to close to
100,000 people in Germany who are active
actively engaged in the extreme right or
neo-nazi
movement in that country they all these
different organizations have been
operating in recent years independent
and dependent lis of each other but the
signs are that they are beginning to
coordinate their activities in a way
which they had never done before forging
alliances and United Front in actions
they have a pretty fertile soil you know
in which to work a survey in 1989 showed
that 79% of Germans feel that there are
too many foreigners in the country two
other studies showed that 20% of the
population still have anti-jewish
feelings and another 30% have are latent
ly anti-semitic still another opinion
poll showed that 20% hated in a in a
racial sense Asians and Africans and
some 69 percent believed that asylum
seekers abused the social welfare system
in the country in elections in my
extreme right in Europe generally and
the European Parliament Parliament you
know is the legislative body of the
European Union or formally the European
community
these neo-fascist parties got something
like around 11 million votes in the
whole of Europe and I believe they
elected close to 20 members of the
European Parliament in Germany the
right-wing parties the neo-nazi parties
won 2.6 million votes so you can see
it's nothing it's not a trivial matter
when it comes to even their electoral
activities their legal electoral
activities as opposed to the the
terrorism that they are carrying out
against foreigners those campaigns of
the far-right in Germany included
slogans like Germany for the Germans
Germany first then Europe and proud to
be German among their campaign proposals
was the expulsion of foreigners as a
solution to the country's housing and
jobs crises and change in the
Constitution to eliminate the asylum
procedure as I mentioned already
something that they achieved last summer
the largest of the parties the Republic
on apartheid or rep as they're called
got a little more than two million votes
and won six seats in Strasbourg that is
the in the European Parliament and they
also have members on the City Council's
in Berlin dsseldorf cologne Stuttgart
and other cities so far they haven't got
any members in the Bundestag but there
are new elections for the national
parliament in West Germany or in Germany
coming up in November and there's very
good chance that they will finally get
some membership in the parliament all
they have to do is get five percent of
the votes and they get representation
under the proportional system in Germany
their leader is France sure in Hobart
who was a volunteer in the waffen-ss of
Hitler's and that of course was the
instrument used to exterminate the Jews
what do these people believe well here
are some starters first they are part of
the growing international movement to
deny or to minimalize the Holocaust for
those who are unaware there has been for
some time and campaign it's been in this
country and it has been in Europe as
well to either deny or to minimalize the
Nazi Holocaust that is the extermination
of the Jews and their various
publications which have come out denying
the Holocaust both written by American
authors and by Europeans these neo-nazis
also believed that trade unions should
be controlled by the state and they
believe young women should be trained
trained in the role of wife and mother
they believe the state should be
empowered to censor publications and
that social security and political
rights should be denied to foreigners
people who are hiv-positive should have
their genitals tattooed and finally they
want to make an abandoned nuclear power
site in Germany into a special labor
camp for their political opponents
eventually they seem especially strong
among police forces as a matter of fact
with studies showing that more than 50%
of police officers in Bavaria support
the rep the Republican Party and some
60% of police officers in the state of
Hesse that is where Frankfurt is the
capital also support the Republican
Party
anybody who studied Hitler's Third Reich
will find similarities a lot of
similarities between the Nazi program of
a Hitler time and what the Republican
Party is proposing today and keep in
mind that the German government agencies
the security agencies only consider this
Republican Party and the other one the
German people's Union to be right
radical and not right extremist
extremists like these violent groups who
would carry such names as the German
liberal Labor Party the nationalist
front the German alternative the
National List the German women's front
another one called anti Zionist action
and anti-communist action to name just a
few of these groups it is something that
is happening all over Europe in Sweden
in Denmark in Norway in France
especially where the National Front has
been very successful in Italy in the
December elections the msi italian
social movement which was founded in
1946 as a continuation of the mussolini
fascist period nearly won the mayor's
offices in Rome and in Naples they were
defeated about 54% to 46% in both cities
by coalition's forged by the former
communist party of Italy in the northern
part of the country the Communists led
coalition's also
narrowly defeated the Northern League
candidates in the Northern League is a
neo-fascist group or party located
mostly in the northern part the
industrial cities of Milan and taurine
and others and the the victories came
also in coalition's organized by the
Communists in Trieste and in C tureen
and one or two other major cities in the
north but it shows that the largest
single party in the center and the south
of Italy
what with the collapse of the Christian
Democrats because of this ongoing
scandal which has changed the political
scene entirely in Italy the largest
party in the center and the south of
Italy is the neo-fascist party the MSI
or Italian social movement in the north
the largest single party is this
Northern League also a neo fascist party
in June there will be new elections to
the European Parliament and we will see
how many votes they get this time some
of the predictions that are that they
will improve on the vote that they got
in 1989 Europe wide and will perhaps get
14 to 15 million votes electing
something like 25 to 35 members of the
European Parliament while going back to
Germany the leader of Germany's Jewish
community
a man named Ignatz goobies announced
last September that any Semitic outrages
in Germany such as the vandalism against
cemeteries and so forth by the way there
are still about 30,000 Jews in Germany
he announced that these outrages during
the first six months of 1993 were equal
to all those that had committed been
committed against Jews in the five-year
period of 1926 to 1931 when the Nazis
were already on their way to power well
I mentioned that the government
calculates that there are 82 neo-nazi
groups act
in Germany and in the past two years
five of them have been banned and sixth
the banning of a sixth but a minute that
these groups are banned they regroup and
they pop up as a new party or they join
another one which has not been banned
so the banning of the parties is totally
ineffective in terms of controlling
these organizations as I mentioned this
neo fascist movement is not peculiar to
Germany it is also very important in
these other countries that I mentioned
and I didn't mention Britain but it is
also very important there everywhere it
has the same ingredients xenophobia
anti-semitism racism a desire for strong
government and limitations on civil
rights twice in recent years in 1985
1986 and 89 90 the European Parliament
undertook special investigations of the
neo fascist movement in Germany and I
have the reports that they published and
they make for very sobering reading of
course the farm right movement is still
very much in a minority in Europe
although it is growing steadily and one
should never forget that Hitler and the
Nazi Party came to power through years
of legal political work elections and
the parliamentary system like Nazis of
old today's fascists are definitely
exploiting real problems like
unemployment crime and housing shortages
and they are also playing to traditional
prejudices and fears of the future they
admit openly that they cannot take power
in the short run but they say they are
patient time is on our side is what they
say and we don't mind if it takes 15 to
20 years to take power as a matter of
fact they have been very effective in
moving in Germany the mainstream
political debate far to the right
through the violence that they have been
engaged in for several years now I think
they're not entirely wrong into
of their possibilities for the long-haul
the Christian Democrats for example in
Germany have not had nominated as their
first candidate for the President of
Germany a largely ceremonial post but
one with a lot of moral authority they
had nominated the Justice Minister of
the state of Saxony a man whose name was
Stefan - he caused such a scandal that
he was forced to pull out but he was the
first candidate of the Christian
Democratic Party and they are the party
in power in Germany right now the
Chancellor Helmut Kohl is a Christian
Democrat well in its September speech
this man Heitmann said that despatch
September he said there was and this is
a quote from his speech too much foreign
influence in Germany he also said that
too much had been made of what he called
the Nazi episode he went on to say that
and this is another quote from his
speech the organised death of millions
of Jews and gas chambers was just a
one-off incident very similar to other
singular incidents throughout history
there's no reason why Germany should
worry about it until the end of time and
this is the Christian Democratic
candidate for president as I say he was
forced to withdraw as a candidate
because of this and various other things
he said which were disparaging of women
US policies in post-war Europe had
assured the survival of Nazism in
Germany and of fascism generally in
Europe one of the ways that it did so in
in Germany was not to carry out two of
the pledges made during the war and
these were the complete denazification
of german society and also the
punishment of war criminals I would
mention a book for the students who are
here today or for anybody as a matter of
fact excellent excellent book on the
failure of denazification it's written
by Tom Bower a British
print and television journalist Tom
Bower Bo wer and it is called a pledge
betrayed a pledge betrayed it is a an
analysis and history of the failure of
denazification it also has quite a bit
about the failure to punish Nazi war
criminals in the end you know there was
the Nuremberg trials of about 12 of the
leaders of the Nazi regime which began
in the winter of 1945 and then there
were what they called the substance
subsequent proceedings in which certain
other Nazis were tried but in actual
fact the number of people tried and
convicted was very very low there were
tens of thousands of Nazi war criminals
who should have been punished but by
1946-47 the cold war was already under
way and these Nazi war criminals were
fanatical anti-communists and they were
just the perfect people for the United
States to use against the Soviet Union
and against the Soviet allies in Eastern
Europe and so we're detoxification is
concerned the United States simply gave
up really they turned it all over to the
Germans to affect because they didn't
have the people they didn't really have
the interest once the cold war against
the Soviets got going and naturally the
Germans were not going to to take it
seriously as it turned out none of the
important professions were denounced
off' i'd and here i mean the legal for
example illegal and the judiciary
the legal profession and the judiciary i
believe more than 90% of the people in
this profession were in the hitler legal
front and none of them were removed from
their positions in the judiciary or from
the legal system the same was true in
education
the people who had been strong Nazis
during the Nazi period remained in the
universities remained in the schools and
so forth after the war was over the
leaders of the u.s. space program for
example the people who put the astronaut
on the moon in 1969 were war criminals
van der von Braun was one walter
dornberger was another and arto Rudolf
was still a third they had all been in
senior positions at the missile Factory
the v2 factory at Nordhausen it was a
factory which was constructed between
1943 and 1945 inside a mountain in caves
and they established a concentration
camp known as Dora alongside this
Factory and during those two years of
construction slave labor by the way
during those two years of construction
between 20 and 30 thousand people
perished there their life expectancy was
less than 6 months in that work and
these people who came over and were the
senior figures in the us-based program
were the principal figures in this
operation at Nordhausen with us and
Vatican help after the war and this is
official US operations they established
these red lines to help Nazi war
criminals escape to the Middle East and
to South America people like Klaus
Barbie who had been the head of the
Gestapo and SS and Leon and was
responsible for the deportation of Jews
and the execution of French Resistance
figures he was a person who worked for
the u.s. army intelligence after World
War two for some years and then in 1951
with helping the CIA he got to Bolivia
he was eventually remember in the 1980s
extradited and convicted in France died
in prison
Adolphe Eichmann the man who actually
ran the extermination program was
another who got to Argentina through
these red lines the Vatican was
extremely important in this because
you know the Croatian government during
that period was a Nazi type government
as a fascist government under the you
Stassi and with the end of the war and
the communist takeover Yugoslavia under
Tito these lost a she had to leave and
it was a strongly Catholic government
besides being fascist and allies of
Hitler they came to Italy some of those
people and were principal figures some
of the priests in the Vatican run
ratlines for escape for these Nazi war
criminals another that made it down to
South America was Walter Ralph
Foster ralph was the inventor of the
mobil gas chamber
these were trunks big vans which they
used to cram Jews into and then they
would pipe the exhaust into the truck so
that by the time the truck got out to
the mass grave everybody in it would be
dead he's one of the people who got away
that way and one more I'd mention is
Josef Mengele the doctor who conducted
the experiments at Auschwitz he also was
a beneficiary of these red lines which
were run by the United States and the
Vatican well I would recommend that to
anyone who is interested in this period
the Bauer book is excellent the
Christopher Simpson book bobak is also
very interested interested the subtitle
of it is America's recruitment of Nazis
and its effects on the Cold War you know
what had happened during the war is that
the German army had advanced all the way
to the Volga River and that is a huge
expanse of territory they took over all
of what is now known as Belarus it is
also in the past been known as white
Russia or as BL or OSHA that borders on
Poland and also they took over the
Ukraine took over large expanses
expanses of Russia itself and more
right to the gates of Moscow and
Leningrad during the occupation of these
eastern territories from 1941 on they
exterminated huge numbers of Jews I
think the figure is something like 2
million or so in all of those areas
listening to Philip Agee on the
re-emergence of fascism in Europe and
it's links to post-war US policy this is
alternative radio to order copies of
this program just call us toll free at
1-800-455-1052
all of these countries had had their
exile organizations following the
Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 some of
them had set up in Paris and others in
other places and in the case of the
Ukraine for example they had a military
force which had been trained by the
Germans and actually invaded the Ukraine
with the German army these were the
people who were organized to do the
extermination of Jews in their home
territories and there were national SS
units formed by the Germans
but staffed by the by the local people
in these countries of Eastern Europe and
areas of Eastern Europe where the
Germans were carrying on the occupation
these people were also in charge of
repression of the of the resistance
movement because in all of those
countries naturally there was a
resistance movement to the German
occupation and they were harrassing the
German resupply
when the war was over or let's say after
the Battle of Stalingrad which was the
turning point of the war and it was the
Russians really who won the war the
Soviets who won the war not the d-day
invasion at the very end but the
resistance by the Soviets at Stalingrad
which turned the tide and then the
Germans were pushed back eventually
as they were pushed back these
indigenous SS forces and
collaborationist forces that had worked
with the German occupation retreated
with the German army and eventually they
winded up they wound up in refugee camps
what were known then as displaced
persons camps in the in what had been
Germany and most of these camps really
were in the Allied occupation zones in
the West the British the French and the
US occupation zones there was something
like seven million people in these camps
at war's end and naturally they were
screened by the u.s. to try to find
which were the war criminals there was
an effort made at the beginning but the
effort didn't last very long because
soon the US Army and then the CIA after
it was established in 1947 were
screening these refugee camps for people
who could be used in operations against
their home countries and as they had
been fascists and war criminals they
were all too eager many of them to
continue the war against the Soviet
Union but now under us rather than
German sponsorship and so from about
1948 on these people were spotted and
recruited out of these refugee camps and
they were taken for military training
and for the formation of military units
for paramilitary operations every single
country of Eastern Europe was the target
of these activities these people were
trained they were dropped back in by
parachute or they were infiltrated by
from the sea in maritime operations or
in one way or another
Rhian filtrated to their countries of
origin and there they carried out
sabotage and all sorts of
activities which were intended to [ __ ]
the economic recovery in Eastern Europe
already the Marshall Plan you know was
in effect by 1949 1948 and the United
States wanted to create a huge contrast
between what the economic situation was
in Eastern Europe and what it was would
become in the West with us support and
one of the reasons one of the ways they
did this was to carry out these sabotage
operations in Eastern Europe they went
on by the way from about 1948 to 56 some
eight years and eventually after the
Hungarian revolt was put down by the
Soviets in 1956 there was a real value a
ssin within the Eisenhower
administration and the operations were
brought to a close these aggressive
paramilitary operations and sabotage
missions against the Eastern European
countries but the propaganda already was
starting up early on too and the
principal vehicles for this propaganda
targeted on the peoples of Eastern
Europe were in the case of the Soviet
Union Radio liberation from Bolshevism
Bolshevism a title which was changed to
radio liberation and eventually Radio
Liberty this radio broadcast to the
Soviet Union and all the different
languages spoken in the Soviet Union the
other radio was Radio Free Europe which
broadcast to all the other countries of
Eastern Europe and the various languages
spoken in those countries they were both
based in Munich and they were staffed by
many war criminals which had been
recruited for that purpose I hate to
carry out propaganda targeted against
their home countries the whole thing was
funny
financed by a front committee set up
here in the United States which included
Allen Dulles who became the director of
the CIA Cardinal Spellman was involved
he's the Cardinal of New York at the
time and other prominent figures they
were CIA operations from the very
beginning Greece was the scene of some
of
the most important CIA operation US
government operations after the war you
know the principle resistance to the
Nazi occupation in most of the places of
Europe where it occurred was were the
Communists and socialists in Greece that
happened that the principle resistance
force was the national liberation
movement known as a M or L us and the
National Liberation Army known as a m
and they had Harris the Germans through
the entire occupation and when the
Germans withdrew in 1944 as the war was
turning against them these resistance
forces took over the country but Stalin
and Churchill had made a deal that
Greece would return to British tutelage
after the war and so the British invaded
from Egypt in December 1944 and began a
campaign to replace the liberation
forces that had taken over the
administration of the country the
political repression got so bad that
these forces went back into the hills
and the Greek Civil War followed from
about 1947 to 1949 the United States
intervened massively in this Greek Civil
War on the side of the extreme right and
it ended in a United States victory
during the German occupation they had
done the same thing in Greece that they
had done in Eastern Europe that is they
had fought they had formed security
forces for the fight against the
resistance movement of Greeks these were
called security battalions they were
Greek fascists who were collaborating
with the German occupation of Greece
after the war the CIA established with
the officers from these security
battalions a new security service for
Greece this security service then became
the
instrument for maintaining power in the
hands of the extreme ride for many years
to come it was called the KY P or keep
the Greek initials for Central
Intelligence Agency they gave it the
same name in 1940 by 1967 when it looked
as though flame forces might come to
power in Greece KY P organized a
military coup in Greece and the man who
came out on top as the leader of the
military hunter it was a fascist
dictatorship really for seven years
there was George papadopolis a colonel
who had been the principal liaison
officer of this security service with
the CIA offices in the US Embassy in
Athens and so here was another example
of this kind of covered intervention
coming back in with a vengeance in this
case against Greeks themselves because
these the so called Colonels regime and
grease from 67 to 74 became so
repressive that it was expelled from the
Council of Europe torture was
institutionalized there and thousands of
Greeks were forced into a political
exile during that period Italy was
another place where the same sort of
thing happened the principal resistance
forces to the Germans and the Italian
fascist government of the time were the
Communists and as the United States
military forces advanced from south to
north they were accompanied by officers
of the OSS the predecessor organizations
to the CIA and they these people in the
OSS assured that the Mussolini fascist
security services would be preserved
intact they rescued these people they
kept them in business they gave him a
new name and they became Italy's
post-war security and intelligence
services these were the very forces
which became involved in terrorism in
Italy in the mid 1960s and continued on
into
1980s they carried out innumerable
attacks hundreds of people were killed
and the attacks were made to appear to
be coming from the left when in actual
fact they were carried out by the
Italian security services themselves the
purpose was to foment what they called
in a strategy of tension they fight in
Italy all through this period from world
war ii on was between the Christian
Democrats supported by the United States
and the Communist Party of Italy which
had been the main resistance force to
first the Italian fascist movement from
the 1920s on and then the German
occupation after the fascist government
fell in 1944 or 43 I think it was in any
case the CIA's first big covered
intervention is in Italy you know it was
established under the National Security
Act of 1947 and it was for the first
time in US history a civilian
intelligence agency in time of peace
there had never been one in US history
until 1947 but since the Cold War was on
it was determined that we would have to
have a security service or a foreign
intelligence service to collect
information around the world process it
analyzed it and put it in the hands of
the people who needed it to make their
decisions beginning with the President
himself and the members of the National
Security Council the Security Council
having been a creation under the same
law the National Security Act from the
beginning the agency had another role
besides intelligence collection and
analysis and dissemination and that was
covered action or covered operations at
the very first meeting of the National
Security Council in 1947 the decision
was taken and Truman was in the chair by
the way the decision was taken that the
CIA would spend some ten million dollars
intervening in the Italian elections
which were coming up in April 1948 a lot
of money at that time they were afraid
that the Communists might win that
election and that is the Communists and
the Socialists in coalition a coalition
which was called the popular bloc
they passed out the ten million dollars
through front organizations in Italy
through the Vatican and through
italian-american organizations in this
country and it was successful the
Christian Democrats won the elections
going away it was so successful in fact
that the whole intervention continued
for many years after that during the
next 25 years the CIA passed out as much
as 100 million dollars to the Christian
Democrats to keep them in office and as
you know they were in office and they
have been in office ever since then they
did eventually bring the Socialists in
with them the Socialist Party eventually
split with the Communists and they too
formed governments in Italy in coalition
with the Christian Democrats but about
two years ago the scandal which has
rocked Italy broke and both the
Socialists and the Christian Democrats
have collapsed as political parties and
there will be elections this month in in
Italy and we shall see perhaps the time
has finally come for the former
communists to form a new government
they are favored and the chances are
they may win enough votes to form a
government they are now called the party
of the Democratic Left this is what the
Italian security services all through
these years and by the way when you
speak of these services you have to
speak of them or think of them as very
closely allied with the CIA working
hand-in-glove day in and day out these
services were the ones which were trying
to provoke a military coup from the mid
60s on into the 80s a fascist military
coup is what they're trying to do as had
occurred in Turkey for example in the
early 1980s they were unsuccessful in
that but they were successful in
creating the climate in which the
Christian Democrats would retain power
and of course with all the CIA money
going from 1947 on
into the Christian Democratic Party it
naturally had a corrupting effect which
led to the much greater corruption in
terms of the kickbacks that have been
revealed in the last two years so you
have examples in Greece and in Italy of
these covered operations and the
survival of the fascist movements in
those countries the MSI or the party I
mentioned which is largest party in the
central and southern areas of Italy
right now this party was allowed to
establish itself in 1946 by the United
States administration that is the
occupation forces in Italy and it was
from the very beginning declared to be a
continuation of the political movement
which had led by been led by Mussolini
in the 1972 elections to give you an
example of one of those interventions
the CIA budget was I think ten million
dollars most of it went to the Christian
Democrats but 800,000 dollars went to
the neo fascist party the MSI for the
elections that year 1972 to its credit
the CIA was against that payment but
Graham Martin the US ambassador insisted
that it go and there was an argument and
he won this came out with the
investigation by the House of
Representatives into the CIA in the
1970s and he insisted that that money be
given and the quote from the document
was for a note to show solidarity for
the long pull those were his words show
solidarity with the neo fascist movement
in in Italy well one more example I will
give on the United States program after
world war ii that kept Nazism alive in
Germany and that is the case of Reinhard
Galen Reinhard Galen had been Hitler's
chief of intelligence on the Eastern
Front
that is the Soviet front he was the
expert in the German army on the Soviet
Union
he was only 43 when the war ended and he
was determined to continue the war
against the Soviet Union and to get
United States sponsorship since Hitler
had been defeated and so in the last
days of the war he Michael filmed all of
his files and with his senior officers
took them down to Bavaria to the Alps
and there they buried in steel drums
these microf this microfilm of hundreds
of thousands of documents it was the
largest collection of information on the
Soviet Union existing anywhere in the
world outside the Soviet Union itself he
waited until the United States Army came
through and then he presented himself
and surrendered
they took him for debriefing at a base
which was eventually to become the CIA's
major base in Germany it was the place
where the Luftwaffe Luftwaffe the German
air force had brought the American
pilots to be interrogated of American
and British and so forth the pilots when
they were shot down and it was just just
north of Frankfort at over over there
they interrogated or they debriefed
Gailen he told them about the microfilm
buried in the drums and told them where
to find them a detachment of army people
went up and dug them up and they began
to review them and they saw that this
stuff was pure gold already there was
distrust between the United States and
the Soviet Union and the Cold War was
already beginning even in 1945 so they
they brought Gailen over to the United
States the Soviets were after him by the
way as a war criminal because he had
been in charge of the of the
interrogations of Soviet prisoners of
war in Germany you know there were about
four about three to four million German
sorry three to four million Soviet
prisoners of war died in the prisoner of
war camps and they died from disease
they died from lack of food
died from excessive interrogation
techniques and so forth and Galen was
the person whose organization was in
charge of the debriefing and the
interrogations of all them and so the
Soviets wanted to was in u.s. hands and
one of the reasons they brought him to
the United States was they're afraid the
Soviets might get him he was kept here
for a year they took him to Fort hunt
outside Washington and there he started
to write the history of German
intelligence and made his proposal for
continuing against the Soviets with the
United States money the US Army agreed
and he was brought back to Germany and
set up in business again it was known
then or his group was known then as the
Galen org or Galen organization and this
eventually was taken over by the CIA in
1948 or 49 I forgotten which year
exactly once the agency was established
and then in 1956 when Germany achieved
its full independence the gamin
organization became the bone is not
written in dienst or federal
intelligence service and that continues
today as Germany's principal foreign
intelligence service but Galen was a war
criminal and he brought into his
organization early on in the 1940s other
war criminals from the SS and the
Gestapo and so forth even though he had
signed a paper saying he would not do it
but the United States knew it and just
looked the other way and these people
then became involved in new and
aggressive operations against the Soviet
Union you know during the war there had
been a Russian army called the Vlasov
army this was under a general who had
defected to the Germans whose name was
blood of lusts off which numbered as
many as 100,000 troops at one time these
are were all Russians who were fighting
for the Germans against the Soviet Union
and there were remnants of this glass
off army that had survived the war one
of the first things Galen did was to
revitalize this loss of army ie the
remnants of it for paramilitary
operations against the Soviet Union
these operations went on and on
to the 50s and even into the 60s not the
paramilitary but the propaganda and they
were responsible for the survival of
Nazism in Germany the main spiritual
leaders of the current neo-nazi movement
are people from that period former SS
officers for example they attend the
rallies they go to the reunions they
attend for example there are two big
dates in German in the German neo-nazi
movement one is Hitler's birthday in
April and one is the commemoration of
Rudolf Hess it has his death in Spandau
prison I would mention finally in in
concluding that this is really a serious
problem over there in Europe and I
really don't know how long my wife and I
are going to be able to continue to live
there because even though we are white
which is to our advantage in this thing
and we are Americans and Americans have
not been really targeted except you know
for the luge team the the black American
member of the loose team which had been
training in the eastern part of Germany
and who was attacked at this disco one
night but I think the chances are that
we will have to sometime leave Germany
and we talk about coming back here in
any case not for political reasons but
simply to come back here and live but it
is a really serious development you all
know that Gillian offski the neo-fascist
or the neo-nazi and Russia his party
Liberal Democratic Party won something
almost a quarter of the vote
something like 23% 24% in December and
he has been developing very close ties
with this other neo-nazi party in
Germany the German people's Union which
is headed by a multi-millionaire
publisher's name is Gerhart Frei Chile
no ski has forced as we all know Yeltsin
to move to the right and to come out
with this whole new nationalist line and
policy in Russia the unfortunate thing
about all this is that the
developments with what is happening in
Bosnia as well because as one human
rights lawyer told me a few months ago
in Washington the government of Korea
right now is a neo-nazi government as is
the Serbian government and Slovenia is
not far behind its developing Slovakia
as well this neo-nazi and neo fascist
movement in Germany is really moving
rather quickly and what it is based on
is a return to this tribal warfare in
Germany the extreme or ultra-nationalism
of the past is already coming out again
and you see it with this ethnic
cleansing in Bosnia well what this means
to all of us is that this defense budget
is not going to go down it means that
Clinton will be able to follow as Bush
had planned for the next five years you
know has been started or he did what was
known as a bottom-up review of the
defense needs of the United States
government and the budget was almost the
same as Bush Bush had calculated for the
next five years 1.5 trillion I think and
Clinton's figure is now 1.3 trillion and
so as long as this is going on this
national security state that we have had
for all these years since World War two
will continue and there will be no money
available for the solution of the social
calamities that we see around us every
day that is the downside of what is
developing in Europe because surely
although they have been looking for ways
in which to justify for example an
increase in the intelligence community's
budget which clinton went along with
they now have all of these real
developments in Europe of Western Europe
and Eastern Europe to justify a
continuation of this permanent war
economy which means as I say that we
will have no money available to solve
the problems in education or public
health or eliminate racism all those
things that we know that are so
deplorable in the United States today
that was Philip Agee on the re-emergence
of fascism in Europe and it's links to
post-war US policy this special program
from the alternative radio archives was
recorded in Portland Oregon in March
1994 Philip Agee is a former Central
Intelligence Agency officer since
resigning from the CIA he has lectured
and written widely about the agency's
covert operations his landmark book
inside the company was an international
bestseller this program is produced by
alternative radio an independent
award-winning weekly series featuring
such voices as Noam Chomsky Angela Davis
Michael Parenti Vandana Shiva and Howard
Zinn to access our catalog visit our
website www.videoculinary.com the
re-emergence of fascism in Europe and
it's links to post-war US policy just
call our toll-free number 1-800 triple
four 1977 again that toll-free number is
1-877-443-6276